.\" MANPAGE FOR JKUTOP
.TH JKUTOP "9" "Feb 2013" "JKUtop" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
JKUtop \- a rewrite of top
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jkutop [-u (username|uid)] [-g (groupname|gid)]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
JKUtop is a rewrite of top geared towards speed, especially on big SMP systems. Apart from process filtering which excludes per-cpu kernel processes it also uses a hash table based memory structure in order to store and access process data quickly. It also has no functionality to display individual threads. Thanks to these measures it achieves a noticeable speedup on ridiculously large SMP systems compared to top from procps.
.PP
JKUtop has a couple of features we (HPC administrators) found useful, like cpuset or page faults delta. The interface uses ncurses to replicate the one known from top. There is also some level of support for mouse control.
.PP
Currently there is a limited set of command line options:
.TP
\fB-u username|uid\fR
Restrict displayed jobs to those owned by this user or UID
.TP
\fB-g groupname|gid\fR
Restrict displayed jobs to those owned by this group or GID
.PP
Most modifications are done interactively. You can use any of:
.TP
\fBO, o, S, s, F or f\fR
to enter the display modification mode. Then follow the instructions shown in the header area (this is still a work in progress and likely to change)
.TP
\fBh\fR
Interactive help
.TP
\fBq\fR
quit
.TP
\fBw\fR
Save your settings to ~/.jkutoprc. If you want to go back to defaults, delete this file. If you are calling jkutop by another name (say by symlinking it or renaming the executable), the configuration file will be called by that name. This enables having several different configurations for the same program. If you symlink jkutop as 'jktop-custom' and write the configuration, it will land in .jkutop-customrc and be loaded the next time you start it with that name.
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
Currently JKUtop allows you to select among the following display fields:
.TP
\fBPID\fR
the process ID
.TP
\fBPPID\fR
process parent ID
.TP
\fBUSER\fR
username of process owner
.TP
\fBUID\fR
user ID of process owner
.TP
\fBPR\fR
process priority
.TP
\fBNI\fR
process nice value
.TP
\fBVIRT\fR
amount of virtual memory requested by the process
.TP
\fBRES\fR
process resident set (i.e. the amount of actual physical RAM used
.TP
\fBS\fR
process state
.TP
\fB%CPU\fR
CPU usage percentage
.TP
\fB%MEM\fR
memory usage percentage
.TP
\fBSWAP\fR
amount of memory swapped out to disk - currently inactive as all methods that can be used to determine the actual amount of swap used (as opposed as simply calculating the difference between VIRT and RES, which does not really show swap usage) are impractical on big SMP systems.
.TP
\fBTIME+\fR
the CPU time accumulated by the process
.TP
\fBCOMMAND\fR
the command used to start the process
.TP
\fBnMin\fR
number of minor page faults generated. This is what happens whenever a process really uses the memory that is alotted to it
.TP
\fBnMaj\fR
number of major page faults. This happens every time a memory page is swapped out to disk. Thus, lots of major page faults indicate high swap usage. However the number is cumulative and a long-running process may show lots of major page faults even though this is not problematic. To identify heavily swapping processes use the major page fault delta display.
.TP
\fBdFLT\fR
major page fault delta, the increase of faults since last update. Useful to find processes currently swapping.
.TP
\fB%SYS\fR
percent CPU spent in kernel mode, the "system load". Processes showing high system load could potentially profit from optimisation.
.TP
\fBCPUSET\fR
the cpuset the process is being executed in
.TP
\fBnTHR\fR
the number of threads this process is executing
.PP
The name of current sort field is shown in \fBbold\fR font. You can choose to have the processes sorted in ascending or descending order.
.SH MOUSE OPERATION
JKUtop offers some support for mouse control. Doubleclicking a task in the taks display will bring up a screen with additional information about it, clicking again (or pressing any key) will close it again.
.PP
Double-clicking a display column name in the header will make it the new sort field. Double-clicking a column which is already the sort field will toggle between descending and ascending order.
.SH SELECTING/COPYING TEXT
Hold down shift key to enable normal mouse operation for click-and-drag or multiple-click selection and copying. Ncurses mouse support masks mouse operations, using shift enables them again.
.SH BUGS
.PP
The delay between updates is accomplished by ncurses' halfdelay mode while waiting for input. This makes updates inaccurate. The delay is the sum of halfdelay timeout and the time required to update data. Also, any user input causes halfdelay to exit, so every input triggers a new update. It works, but is messy. The desireable behaviour would be to aim for fixed updates of about 3 seconds if the data can be updated in that time, and to extend if not (which can happen on a very big and busy system).
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report acctdb bugs to (and request features from) faruk.kujundzic@jku.at
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Faruk Kujundzic
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2013 Faruk Kujundzic
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B jkutop
is \fBNOT\fR maintained as a Texinfo manual. Move on, nothing to see there.
